GUEST: I think it's a bodhisattva, it's a
figure of the Buddha, and this is a repose
position.
It has gilt, but it's worn off.
There's a missing arm.
I thought it was so beautiful, I didn't mind
the damage.
I almost didn't have a chance to acquire it,
because I was having 15 people for lunch.
There was a local person who was a colorful
character in Kirkwood, so I really wanted
to get to his garage sale.
I rushed out and the dealers had been there
for two days before, so I thought everything
good would be gone, but when I saw this, I
thought it was so beautiful, I just grabbed
it.
APPRAISER: May I inquire what you paid for
it?
GUEST: Probably between $75 and $100, which
was a lot for me.
It was about 20 years ago.
APPRAISER: Well, it is interesting that it
was omitted from consideration by the dealers
for two days.
This, in fact, is a gilt bronze figure.
Beautifully seated, Wenshu, bodhisattva of
insight.
Beautiful drapery, there's ribbon work.
Very fine, reticulated hands.
Wonderful rope and jewelry work.
The rolled fly whisk is beautifully cast,
and there is Rubenesque, or a chubby quality
to the face, which is indicative of the age
and period.
It's a beautiful face of compassion.
Slightly down-tilted.
Looking at the figure, there are some features
of early bodhisattvas.
A truncated, or, for want of a better word,
skinny waist.
The jeweled chest.
The very deep and fine drapery of the robe,
and seated in Royal Ease.
And Royal Ease is really a characteristic
of very early Buddhist art.
The dating would be approximately early 15th
century, or early Ming Dynasty.
The consensus is that it did have a base.
The base that is often associated and cast
with these objects is a post, and then a similar,
conforming lotus base.
So it's raised, it's revered, it's elevated,
as a Buddha should be.
The quality of this Buddha is so fine, the
age is such a Golden Age of Buddhist art,
that we would not be surprised if the original
base had an inscription, and that it's possible
that that base may have had an imperial inscription.
GUEST: Oh, really?
APPRAISER: It would be very, very difficult
to prove that it was for the imperial household
or from an imperial workshop, as there's no
inscription.
I think those who understand Buddhist works
of art from that period would look at this
object and say it's beyond a very wealthy
patron's quality of bronze.
So it's likely that the quality would indicate
that it's an imperial piece.
GUEST: Do you think it's Chinese?
APPRAISER: It is Chinese.
GUEST: Okay, that's what I, that's what I
thought.
APPRAISER: It's of no real consequence that
the gilding is gone.
We would be shocked and suspicious if the
gilding was there.
Yes, you're missing a hand.
Yes, you're missing an arm.
These are old objects.
These are somewhat fragile objects.
Although bronze is hearty, it is brittle.
Objects get dropped.
They're detached.
Any idea what it may be worth in today's market
after what I've said?
GUEST: To me, it was worth $100 or whatever
I paid, so I didn't really care.
APPRAISER: A very conservative retail price
would be $100,000 to $125,000.
GUEST: (quietly) Really?
Are you really serious?
(laughing) Oh, my goodness.
I can't believe it.
APPRAISER: It's a wonderful object.
GUEST: Well-- my goodness.
(laughing) I can't believe it.